one of the cornerstones that our society
is constructed around is success for all
that it is an abstract concept
we certainly push our entire lives to
meet it and yet has there ever been
anything so coveted that is so vaguely
defined
what is success what does success mean
and what does it mean to be successful
and most importantly
how do I get some of it it may seem
self-evident at first just
you know be successful and you know
you've got it when you've got a nice
house a nice car a good job but are you
really successful if someone has better
stuff than you if success is a gauge of
who's doing the best then we can only
say that one person is really successful
the power for Success needs to be low
enough to be attainable but high enough
that it can hover over your head like a
carrot on a fishing pole go on little
donkey go to school for accounting and
forget all about music production the
latter has a small chance of Mega
success whereas the former is a more
moderate success but is almost
guaranteed and you know not everyone can
be the next Lady Gaga maybe that idea of
success is a bit too steep maybe it's
okay to settle for
you know district manager but can you
really say that you're successful if you
have to settle maybe success is relative
to what is available to you but then
again what excuse do you have for
patting yourself on the back for getting
that management promotion
when Janelle Monae was born in Kansas
City to a maid and a truck driver among
queer people there is a market push for
a kind of success because it is not a
success that is recognized by the masses
it's a quiet success that may go
uncredited in a person's lifetime for
the longest time queer people had to
live in the closet
so in many ways success was denied to
them if they didn't have the stomach for
starting a heteroalien family of their
own open queer people were shut out from
society and yet still we persisted we
still managed to become some of the
greatest artists filmmakers writers
musicians and King makers the world has
ever seen so why do queer people have
this seemingly innate Drive
to exemplify perfection
if you've been close to queer creators
you'll know what I'm talking about
there's a need to push boundaries break
molds and go above and beyond what
everyone else in their field is doing
were show-offs because we have to be so
why do we feel like we have to be why
isn't good enough
good enough when that's perfectly fine
for 90 of the population who wants to be
good enough
when you can be perfect
[Music]
Black Swan is a 2010 Darren Aronofsky
film starring Natalie Portman which
skyrocketed her to the status of one of
the generation's greatest actresses
she'd come a long way from Star Wars and
Mars Attacks this also is probably
Darren aronofsky's signature film in
spite of it bearing a striking
similarity to the Japanese animated film
perfect blue both in content and
aesthetic would have been easy enough to
say yeah I saw perfect blue and really
wanted to do my own take on it but with
a New York ballet troop but there was a
rigamaru for a long time where Aronofsky
denied having even ever seen it because
ego I guess the primary separation
between the two pictures is black Swan's
focus on camera work and Natalie
Portman's performance Black Swan lost
the best picture Academy Award to The
King's Speech I would have been more
than comfortable if it had gone to
either Black Swan or The Social Network
that year but instead I had to cringe my
way through another important period
piece imagery and themes from Black Swan
remain media relevant even over a decade
later
it's likely that unlike even The Social
Network Black Swan will persist as a
generation defining film for the
Hollywood Vault because certainly nobody
really remembers The King's Speech and
aside from Portman's home run
performance as walking panic attack Nina
the Prima ballerina the ongoing
reverence for the film suggests there is
far more to it how does this film speak
to the people who continue to hold on to
it Nina is the daughter of a single
mother and former ballet dancer whose
career had to get tucked away to raise
her daughter it's unclear if Nina's
excellence in dance is something she
wanted or if it's something her mother
pushed her into Nina is over parented
and locked in a state of Perpetual
girlhood we do have an indication that
Nina's sexuality is at least fluid her
sexual interest in Jacques seems to be
more about proving a point to him and
her sexual interest in Lily could be
more of an act of rebellion I swear
there's an entire Ace or pansexual paper
that you could write about the implicit
sexuality of Nina I'm inclined to say
that her queerness is not indicative of
the plot but
her uncomfortable sexual attraction and
or sexual indifference to others and
herself is underlying the whole film The
Girl is confused Nina also likely lives
with undiagnosed psychosis nowhere in
the film is this explicitly stated
though the audience is given this
impression through hallucinations and
gaps in her perception
she consistently sees her face on other
girls who look similar to her which
given that this is a New York ballet
troupe is almost everyone in her
immediate circle she possesses a number
of psychological ticks when Under
Pressure she scratches and picks at her
skin
somehow picking off a hangnail is one of
the most unsettling moments of body
Horror in cinema history which is part
of why this film struck so hard peeling
back a hangnail and accidentally ripping
off your finger is something I'm sure
we've all been afraid of at some point
and if you haven't I hope you're
enjoying your mental health her ballet
troop is lagging in audience attendance
and in order to cycle more butts into
seats The Troop director Jacques decides
to cycle out their former Prima
ballerina Beth to Mark the
reinvigoration of the troop season he is
staging a reimagined and streamlined
performance of Swan Lake Nina is
selected to take Beth's position after a
questionable audition process sussing
some of the bite out of the timid
sheltered girl Jacques struggles to
translate that onto stage Nina's
meticulous obsession with structure and
factory-made Poise he feels blocks her
from truly embodying the raw and
seductive Passion of the Black Swan the
story of the ballet follows Prince
Siegfried who is given his father's
blessing to go on one last Bachelor stag
Bender before having to select a
candidate for betrothal boys right while
on a hunting trip with his friends he
encounters a glorious Swan though just
as he takes aim the sun drops below the
Horizon and the swan transforms into a
beautiful woman she tells him that she
is Princess Odette who angered the
wicked Sorcerer rothbard And was cursed
to live her daylight hours as a swan and
that only true love could break this
curse the two dance and talk all night
and quickly begin to feel a budding
Romance
but before Siegfried could confess his
feelings odette's swantaraj finds her
and whisks her away from what they feel
could be the dangerous false promise of
affection Siegfried returns to his
castle and demands his servants return
to the lake to secure the swan for upon
Nightfall he shall give his promises to
her his parents naturally hesitant call
upon a number of other ladies regardless
and all the night is spent dancing and
celebrating but when The Swan Princess
arrives All Eyes fall upon her this
version of Odette favors black and not
only seduces Siegfried but enchants the
entire court and it is not until
Siegfried offers her his hand in
marriage and the whole of nobility
offers their blessing that she reveals
herself to be Odelay the daughter of
rothbart and his student in sorcery
Siegfried rushes to Odette whose heart
is broken knowing how easy it was to
avert his gaze from her there are
several endings to Swan Lake most of
them are tragic but with varying degrees
yes you get the one where Siegfried
renews his affections for Odette and
their love overpowers rothbart's magic
but Tchaikovsky had no hand in that most
endings revolve around Odette taking her
own life as with the ballets ending in
Black Swan sometimes one or both of the
men die sometimes Odette is forced to
live as a swan forever sometimes her
death breaks the spell and she chooses
to leave Siegfried behind the key
feature of the ballet is the performance
of both the Swan Queen and the Black
Swan two very different roles often
Danced by the same dancer and how a
dancer portrays either character can
make a significant difference to how the
audience feels about the production dual
roles like these were not often used on
stage and if it wasn't done right it
could come across as very gimmicky Black
Swan draws many parallels to the
Tchaikovsky ballet but various elements
are subverted and there is a question of
which character is which is Jacques the
Gallant Prince Siegfried meant to rescue
Nina from her sheltered life
or is he the devious rothbart who turns
a princess into a swan out of pure spite
while it may seem apparent that co-star
Mila Kunis's character Lily is the Black
Swan Nina's journey is for herself to
become the Black Swan and there is a
suggestion that Lily is not as devious
as Nina May perceive her is Nina a Swan
Queen transforming into the Black Swan
or is she a Black Swan merely
masquerading as a Swan Queen
the film calls to attention Nina's quest
for Perfection and exactly what that
means well it's no secret that she may
be the best technical dancer in the
troupe she lacks the Finesse and freedom
that the director is looking for but
shouldn't this itself qualify as
Perfection if her movement and grace are
so archetypal it wouldn't look as good
if it came out of a factory
how can you criticize someone for being
too good
what isn't explicitly called to
attention in the film is the pragmatic
side the business side of dance because
art and culture or not these shows need
to make money at least to break even
because these performances are heavily
subsidized by Municipal cultural
initiatives but there is still the ego
of drawing in a crowd can we say that
the bulk of the audience needed to make
these shows a success would actively
understand the differences between Nina
and Lily's portrayal of the Black Swan
some of the audience would naturally the
dancers would also but the vast majority
of show goers would not understand the
Nuance that would go into a different
portrayal is Jacques degree of scrutiny
that necessary it's not a shock to
extrapolate that a major theme of this
film is opening a discourse about dance
in general ballet being particularly
toxic the reason why dancers really only
have a career into their late 20s is
because the human body dissolves into a
yarn ball of pain after forcing your
muscles to move like this women
especially develop degenerative foot
problems and sometimes will simply stop
growing toenails due to the demand on
Dancing On Point
which men can rarely do the psychology
of dance is also incredibly destructive
Eating Disorders being among the least
severe consequences if you are cast as a
swan a director will treat you like an
animal favoritism is given toward the
stars and as with Nina the director's
favor is not always a boon
and Black Swan does poke at the culture
of sexual abuse and coercion in the
industry as well it is in question
whether Jacques is using his position to
leverage sexual favors out of hundreds
of beautiful girls who will do anything
for the part alternately he may be
earnestly employing
unorthodox and slightly unethical
techniques to suss the most out of his
dancers but what is clear is that what
Jacques wants out of Nina is everything
she could possibly have to give the
individual is second compared to what
she can afford to the show The Troop and
most importantly his reputation it's not
in question that Jacques is manipulative
and emotionally abusive but for girls
who have dedicated their lives and
bodies to ballet
what are they going to do
get another job as demonstrated by
Nina's mother having a baby is a career
killer what other value do these girls
have if not to devote their entire
existence to Excellence and just how far
will they be pushed to meet those
demands what do they have to be to even
get noticed in the first place
what does Perfection really mean what
needs to be sacrificed for Perfection
why is perfection important to Nina and
most importantly why is perfection the
bare minimum requirement for her Nina
finds herself in a state of existence
where if she's not the best then there's
just no point to her
this is absolutely fostered in part by
her mother whose simultaneous greatest
pride and deepest fear is that Nina will
surpass her potential if her mother was
going to sacrifice her career for Nina
something she is regularly reminded of
the Nina Needs to make that worth it and
naturally this is doubled down by the
aforementioned work environment and yet
to us gays we love Black Swan by the way
to us gays we are drawn to this movie
Beyond just standing Natalie Portman and
Beyond just the magnetic draw to tragic
yet fabulous women there's a question
about why we would feel such a kindred
sense of belonging with a movie about
how abusive the dance industry is what
drives Nina's quest for Perfection it's
something that can easily be dismissed
as a compulsion due to her clear
untreated mental health issues
but the not so Secret Message of Black
Swan is that the environment of dance is
so toxic that the Perfection is a matter
of survival if Perfection is not the
goal if you treat this as a nine-to-five
job if your life health and whole being
are not dedicated to not only meeting
expectations but blasting them out of
the water
then what are you even doing here there
are hundreds of other girls who can tow
the line what makes you so special
granted in this environment Perfection
isn't a sliding scale
it's a matter of who fits what for which
purpose bearing in mind that Lily wasn't
even in consideration for the role of
the Swan Queen in the first place but
her light-hearted demonstrations and
rehearsals filled in the blanks that
Nina was leaving behind suddenly because
Lily can do what Nina struggles with
she seems perfect and make no mistake in
the world of ballet Details Matter the
script isn't being flippant when it
highlights just how nuanced Nina's
movements need to be to make the cut to
this end many Productions of Swan Lake
make cast a different dancer for Odette
and her doppelganger Odelay a thought
that never crosses Jacques mind but
where would the world of art and culture
be if directors just did the easy thing
besides in Productions of the ballet
both Odette and Odelay are on stage so
little splitting the role in two would
defeat the purpose of a prima ballerina
historically the role of the Swan Queen
is one of the most coveted Center Stage
who is she roles in all of Dance
splitting the role may as well be
sharing the spotlight and for girls who
have sacrificed their lives and stepped
on whoever they needed to to get here
that is not a compliment what Nina
represents is a version of perfection
but her version is only suited for half
the role so she may as well be garbage
rather than compliment Nina for her
strengths she is criticized for having
any flaws at all Black Swan offers a
suggestion of what it takes to
experience perfection
the individual must disappear when you
have a collection of young men and women
who exist in a career field where family
and social lives often interfere with
work demands
why not demand the best it's not like
they have anyone to go home and cook
dinner for with nothing else in their
lives going on why not demand Perfection
but the question I have about this is
whether we're putting the cart before
the horse is perfection demanded of
those who do not have any life outside
of their work or do these incredibly
demanding yet prestigious careers
attract people who have nothing else to
live for
or rather for those who choose
to have nothing else to live for
existing within queer circles I've
noticed that there can be
a great deal expected of us what can we
contribute to society if we're not going
to be birthing the subsequent generation
queer artists usually rise above their
contemporaries and are celebrated as the
movers and shakers as the voices of
their day and age
at least
[Music]
until a plague wipes them out or
they're outed at which point nobody
wants anything to do with us
historically at least even outside of
Art
we have been found leading the world of
business and politics bringing new
insights and perspectives again and
again
until we're outed and for those who
enter these worlds here and queer and
not able to hide it
not only do they have to work harder to
overcome social and institutional
roadblocks
but it's not enough to toe the line
they have to make history or they're not
worth mentioning
in history for instance when we talk
about CEOs running gigantic companies we
talk about Bezos or musk or Zuckerberg
we never talk about
Tim Cook
the out gay CEO of Apple who oversaw the
company literally having more cash on
hand than the United States government
at one point ever since queer acceptance
among parents began to catch on the
level of pressure for us to produce
adopted or surrogate grandchildren
has reached pandemic levels
whereas before it was very common to cut
ties with intolerant families or for
tolerant families to understand the
familial limitations afforded to gay
couples and individuals perhaps our
queer striving for Perfection has
derived from a sense of spite
rather than guilt if I cannot earn my
parents Pride I will make them rule
their decision to disown me but now it's
if I cannot continue my family's
bloodline I will give my family name a
legacy what the hell is this house of
the Dragon perhaps these sentiments are
how this cultural attitude towards queer
exceptionalism began but I'm not sure
we've rationalize it like that anymore
but if we are like Nina queer or queer
adjacent as she is
is there a striving to be the best at
what we do a compulsion or a fostered
behavior surely there are many queer
people who find themselves perfectly
comfortable
in a good home with a companion perhaps
even children even pets if they're lucky
my landlord still won't let me have a
dog
salty about that these queers have
resolved to live a happy life
as that branch manager and live out
their Legacy by passing it on to their
children there are also a number of
queer people who are comfortable with
meager of survival having left behind
traumas and troubles in their youth
they're fine doing the best that they
can
and just happy to not be hated by the
people closest to them to say nothing of
those who live with debilitating
psychological or physical disabilities
and for whom survival itself is a
struggle for them tends across the board
is a bit cruelly unrealistic but it's
that attitude 10 10 10 10 across the
board which originated from within our
community found in the underground
ballrooms fashioned from derelict and
abandoned corners of heavily populated
Urban spaces
tucked away where the idol passerby
would not notice
this attitude that a single nine
is an ugly smudge upon your reputation
these attitudes developed within our
community and were present I imagine
long before the ballroom Queens of Poes
built their houses to provide surrogate
families to Lost queer children for
there were always the likes of Oscar
Wilde and Tchaikovsky the former worked
himself nearly to death even before his
criminal sentence so that he could
project the illusion
of a lavish Gentleman of Leisure and
Tchaikovsky lived with debilitating
depression his entire life Tchaikovsky
especially pushed for that unattainable
goal of perfection and while he is now
one of the most celebrated composers of
the western musical Canon during his own
lifetime there was question about
whether he was or was not
a western composer during his time his
home nation of Russia was desperately
disconnected from the rest of Europe a
strange mix of Slavic honey and
Mongolian with a Sprinkle of exotic
Traditions like Christian Orthodoxy
Russia was an alien place to most of
Europe it took german-born Catherine the
Great to introduce European ideas to the
motherland there is a mild case to argue
that Tchaikovsky
did the inverse unlike other Russian
composers Tchaikovsky adopted European
traditionalism into his compositions
among audiences his music seemed exotic
enough to be enticing yet familiar
enough to be recognizable and very very
sad to the extent that today like David
Bowie or the Rolling Stones you've
probably heard a Tchaikovsky Melody even
if you don't know that's what it is
[Music]
unfortunately for him this put pieta in
an uncomfortable position critically
despite the fact that he introduced
Russian conventions into European music
Paving the way for musical giants like
Stravinsky for the time however
Tchaikovsky was in an uncomfortable
middle Zone Russian Scholars lampooned
him for distancing himself from
traditional Russian conventions European
scholars felt that he did not follow
European standards enough to be
intellectually elevated that isn't to
say that he did not have allies in
either group mind you who lauded his
ability to present Russian Aesthetics
without resorting to gaulish exoticism
while being accessible to westerners
ironically Swan Lake was considered a
failure when it premiered get this
critics felt the original score was too
complex to function as ballet
accompaniment imagine completely
Shifting the culture of music and
performance art and everyone around you
shrugs and says
mid to complex Jesus meanwhile
heterosexual and precursor Nazi Richard
Wagner was over there making a dog and
pony show out of morbid complexity and
getting lauded for it
[Music]
it's the worst when hateful people
actually make good art at the very least
it puts him in the camp of other
composers who produced pieces of music
that were
initially
poorly received which then went on to
influence the future of composition
Stravinsky's Rite of Spring
debussy's symphonic sketches of the sea
orbizets Carmen
and the entire career of Hector berlios
who's so underrated he doesn't even get
the last name treatment
[Music]
Tchaikovsky was never openly gay
though there were rumors that he had to
dodge for most of his adult life but as
a Russian trying to produce music for a
European audience
he was an outsider nevertheless and when
people see you as an outsider
there's an immediate barrier
they put before you some qualifications
of otherness are just more visible but I
hear this echoed within the queer
Community to an absurd degree these
barriers and hurdles and expectations
ranging from public speaking contests in
high school local craft competitions to
watching professionals and Publishing
television and other forms of media
people who go out on a limb and break
the mold and then have their bold
advancements parroted by a more
conventional creator
who's then credited with flipping the
script or moderately successful gay
YouTube creators who get left on red by
nebula I feel that perhaps we
overcompensate for our need to provide
ourselves with Legacy we push the limits
a bit further than our Scholars and
corporate overlords are willing to
recognize perhaps because we seek Legacy
and Perfection for its own sake or
rather like Nina
some
internalized compulsion we judge the
Merit of our craft and art upon its own
values rather than the values of the
establishment the objective of that
generally being this needs to sell this
isn't to say that queer people own a
monopoly on perfectionism
Beethoven and Mozart are also considered
perfect however for every Mozart there
were 10 nasaliaries who were
okay but they were not Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart whereas what queer composers can
you think of a difficult question
provided that being closeted makes a lot
of this analysis difficult
but when it comes to hearsay there were
rumors abound of either Chopin Or List
given that they were both Divas who
could put Mariah to shame this may very
well check out
both of them are concerned
oh gods
a gold standard of admission to music
programs with a piano Focus around the
world it always comes back to Divas
which points to the lingering question
at hand
do queer people
possess an internalized Perfection
complex or are we naturally drawn to
Artistic fields that favor presentation
and provided that those without families
often thrive in fields or tangential to
show business
is this where we find ourselves at home
and in Creative Fields especially the
best of the best have their pick
those in demand will always work
that even second or third from the best
May struggle that's why the queer
Community will lift up the barely
talented queers who manage to get the
attention of the straight masses the
Ellens and Pete's this visibility had
been a token of hope that perhaps times
were changing for our history of living
in the shadows the queer person who
makes history
they were the exception to the rule the
rule being that the world could do
without us
however the developing landscape of
queer rights has afforded other venues
of success to queer individuals and
sadly
it is not greater access to success
[Music]
there remains an uncomfortable pattern
for what queer people need to do to be
considered contributive members of
society that is for those who chose not
to conform to the heteronormative
nuclear family pattern of raising
children
it seems strange to me that causing a
cultural shift in pop music or theater
or film is celebrated on par with Frank
and Bob getting married and approved for
adoption they're seen as almost just as
remarkable if you can't do one or the
other
what use are you this is a strange
precedent for our conditional acceptance
we must conform to the hegemonistic
system of Game of Life Milestones to
justify our ability to earn
our human rights or we must become an
icon of success to qualify as a
mold-breaking exception to the blanket
attitude about queer people isn't it
strange that a simple
relatively unremarkable milestone for a
straight person is now hailed as proof
positive of queer success but where do
we go after gay marriage in our lives
it's unclear because simply living a
heteronormative life is regarded as a
kind of success
as if the more of us enlist in domestic
life the greater message we are sending
to the CIS hetero hegemony that we do in
fact deserve the same that they do which
is a bleak way to look at it sure
again
different floats for different boats but
the Straits complain incessantly about
home life being the death of personal
ambition
say nothing of autonomy and they have
the benefit of centuries of media
providing a range of marital Expressions
it seems that there's all this talk
Among The Straits about what qualifies
as a successful marriage but in queer
circles the success of marriage seems to
be
getting married in the first place but
there's that success word again
and once more it seems to be an
inscription rather than a quality of
what's what and for the married gays
watching this I am curious
do you feel more pressure to remain
together
than you see among your heterosexual
counterparts on the playground there is
an indication once more
that success is a burying value
depending upon who it is describing one
would think that success would be the
same for both groups gay and straight
marriages
but I don't think it is it's like
qualifying a drag queen on the success
of Lady Gaga
comparatively Bianca Del Rio or Trixie
Mattel have nothing and yet they're
considered to be the icons of drag
success at least the ones who don't
Frack whereas Stephanie has her good
years and some off ones but again
what is success
and is it the same
as Perfection like any resource success
gains value the more unattainable it is
but only to a point if nobody feels
successful then it can't be used as a
gauge for qualifying one's life or more
importantly
if success is unattainable
then it can't be used as a Sword of
Damocles to Lord over people and
convince them that accounting is a
perfectly fulfilling vocation and maybe
it is for some
certainly pays well with the right
certifications but being an accountant
is a Surefire way to have people call
you successful in a way that being a
truck driver is not regardless of some
who genuinely do find truck driving to
be the preferable fulfilling lifestyle
even if someone does have everything
they need from that career and life why
the reticence to say that they are
successful regardless if they themselves
feel like they have succeeded if success
is neither a Feeling
nor a self-qualification
what is it how does success transfer to
different careers to different groups of
people and for the sake of argument
how does queerness fit into it queer
people after all struggle to find our
place in contemporary society and even
in schools of practice or stereotypes
say we belong
like theater movies art culture dance
we still struggle to find visibility
using Janelle Monae as an example
listening to her discography it is
abundantly apparent that she was never
in the closet she made a song about how
great vaginas were and it was initially
read as female empowerment nobody really
got the message until she explicitly
said the words hey I'm kind of totally
bisexual
and people wonder why we shove our
sexuality in everyone's faces because
you will literally refuse to see us if
we don't
and in spite of the fact that among her
fans she is lauded as the it girl for a
modern revitalization of music
in conjunction with the fact that 80's
icon Prince thought she was the greatest
thing since jam on toast her musical
career is frequently overlooked and even
though her style is hallmarked by a
blend of rockabilly Soul r b and disco
credit for disco revitalization is often
given to Dua Lipa who didn't start
producing music until years later but
Monet
is a queer black woman
endures additional roadblocks to her own
success in spite of her intrinsic need
to produce top-tier art show business
has only so many seats available it
seems and less so for entertainers who
are outside the privileged hegemonys
expectations
is Monet driven to Excellence because
that's simply where the bar for her
connoisseur ship rests or does she have
to work that much harder and produce
content that much better than the
competition who can pass with mediocre
material perhaps the culture's tolerable
awareness for women of color in genre
music is so narrow that the only way to
truly break the mold
is to break through it just like seeking
the favor of an indifferent director by
tormenting yourself with impossible
standards just to watch him look the
other way
what kind of life is that what does that
do to someone well
living among gay men I find we can be
excruciatingly catty with each other
demanding unrealistic ideals to the
point of being rude and cruel
I see groups within the queer Community
turn on each other on a dime for not
being exemplars of queer Justice it
seems we set our own bar very high we
must have the best bodies and anyone not
spending at least four days a week at
the gym need not be invited to the club
we must have the best marriages inside
the best cookie cutter houses and our
children must go to the best exclusive
preschools even if we need to take out a
loan to get them there our depictions in
fiction are lofty moralistic idealistic
and ethical to a fault messy queers are
few and far between and always
criticized with
giving the lgbtq community a bad name
but this model of perfection we're
holding ourselves up to is one that as I
mentioned is a mere standard of life for
straight people the cultural drive to
push us into this nuclear model is one
which might diminish us
just like straight people who give up on
their dreams of being the next David
Bowie because their family pressures
them into getting a real job I think
it's only partially true
when they say that we have to put on
good appearances to impress The Straits
and to justify that we deserve the same
rights they do I feel we have
internalized our own neurotic Perfection
we can't be just like the straights
we must be better than them in every way
we need
to be perfect
[Music]
suppose that this is a manifestation of
privilege I mean it is but this is one
that you wouldn't think about a lot of
elements of privilege have to be
experienced in order to truly understand
them
it's why the privileged are so ready to
deny that privilege exists they may say
well
everyone has been under pressure now and
then but it's not the same as existing
in that atmosphere all the time
especially from an early age constant
exposure to these expectations Force
changes in our behavior and thinking
privilege also means having the choice
to separate oneself from this
environment of expectations so sure
there are times when we are all expected
to push ourselves beyond what we believe
we are capable of but
there are some of us for whom that's the
only way we can be seen at all
especially when our only real world
icons are exemplars of performance art
and perfection
not every queer performer can be Freddie
Mercury if that's the gold standard for
what a queer performer needs to be to be
held up alongside
Taylor Swift
then we're just not going to be
represented and this is our struggle
with representation in fiction we are
often held as exceptional to the point
of tokenism because you shouldn't have
to be the absolute best at what you do
in order to be visible because there's
only one person who can be the best at
something and it goes for queer people
as it does for people of color or even
Independent Women who don't want
children if being the best at something
is the only way that the hegemony is
willing to recognize our talent
then there are thousands if not millions
of queer or people of color
or women
who will be completely ignored next to
the privileged masses you shouldn't need
to be perfect
to be seen
you shouldn't need to feel perfect
to be valuable considering what many of
us have gone through in life
I think still being here
is exceptional enough
your name may not be in lights yet but
someone knows who you are
someone cares about you
someone wants to see you succeed
the Black Swan inside you is only ever
going to hold you down hold you back
even if others insist
that that's the only valuable thing
about you
but you don't need her
when you can be the Swan Queen
you were born to be
[Applause]
[Music]
thank you